---
bibliography: [references.bib]
---

<div style="text-align: justify">

## Pre-methods

- Introduction
  - LCBD as useful measure for ecological uniqueness
  - Restriction to small scales & few sites, unlike BD itself
  - Restriction to known composition
  - Potential to fill-in gaps through SDMs
  - Poses question of applicability on large, continuous scales
  - Potential varying relationship between richness-LCBD, given dependence of BD
    on scale

Beta diversity is an essential measure to describe the organization of
biodiversity in space. The calculation of local contributions to beta diversity
(LCBD), specifically, allows for the identification of sites with exceptional
diversity within a region of interest. To this day, LCBD indices have mostly
been used on regional, smaller scales with relatively few sites. Furthermore, as
beta diversity implies a comparison among the sites of a given region, their use
is typically restricted to strictly sampled sites with known species
composition, hence to discontinuous spatial scales. Here, we investigate the
variation of LCBD indices on extended spatial scales including both species-poor
and species-rich regions, and investigate their applicability for continuous
scales and unsampled sites through the use of species distribution models
(SDMs). To this aim, we used Bayesian additive regression trees (BARTs) to model
species composition on continuous scales based on observation data from the
eBird database.

## Methods
 
- Methods
  - eBird & transformation to presence-absence
  - WorldClim & Copernicus, variable selection
  - BARTs with `embarcadero`
  - Richness, LCBD with hellinger transformation, relationship
  - Subareas (rich & poor)
  - 3 scales

We decided to focus our analyses on the Warblers family (_Parulidae_)in North
America (Canada, US, Mexico). We collected all occurrence data available in the
eBird database, which represented roughly 30 million observations. Global
citizen-contributed databases often present additional challenges compared to
conventional datasets due to their lack of structure, as well as spatial and
taxonomic biases [@Johnston2019BesPra], which could be seen in our data
(@tbl:ebird). However, eBird offers two advantages over other large scale
datasets [@Johnston2019BesPra]\: 1) the data is structured as checklists and
users can explicitly specify their observations as “complete checklists” when
all detected species were reported, which allows to infer information on species
absences, and 2) the dataset is semi-structured and checklists are associated
with metadata describing sampling effort, such as duration of search, distance
travelled and number of observers, which can be used as controls in the
analyses. Hence, model performance can be improved by inferring absences and
subsampling checklists, while spatial bias can be compensated by including
effort covariates in the model [@Johnston2019BesPra]. Therefore, we believe the
dataset can be appropriately used to achieve our objective of expanding measures
of exceptional biodiversity through space. 

We collected the data available in the WorldClim 2 database [@Fick2017Wor2N] for
North America, to which we decided to restrict our analyses. The WorldClim data
consists of spatially interpolated monthly climate data for global areas,
available for resolutions from 10 arc-minutes to 30 arc-seconds (around 18 km²
and 1 km² at the equator). Since the release of the first version of the
database in 2005 [@Hijmans2005VerHig], it became the most common source of
climate data for SDM studies [@Booth2014BioFir]. The variables we used were
different measures of temperature and precipitation (@tbl:wc_vars), which very
high global cross-validation coefficients (> 0.99 and 0.86 respectively)
[@Fick2017Wor2N]. We chose to use the coarser 10 arc-minutes resolution in our
preliminary analyses, as we believed it was sufficient for proof of concept of
our method. We also collected land cover data from the Copernicus Global land
service [@Buchhorn2019CopGlo]. These data consisted of 10 variables for the main
land cover classes, each represented by their percentage of cover fraction. The
Copernicus data is available at a 100m spatial resolution, finer than for the
WorldClim data, hence we coarsened it it to the same resolution by averaging the
cover fraction values.

## Figures

<p align="center">
    <img src="fig/richness-raw.png" width="49%" />
    <img src="fig/richness-bart.png" width="49%" />
</p>

Figure: Distribution of species richness in North America, defined as the number
of Warblers species per site (10 arc-minutes pixels). The raw occurrence
observations from eBird (left) and the SDM predictions from the single-species
BART models (right) were both transformed into presence-absence data per species
before calculating richness.

<p align="center">
    <img src="figures/lcbd-raw.png" width="49%" />
    <img src="figures/lcbd-bart.png" width="49%" />
</p>

Figure: Distribution of the LCBD values in North America, calculated from the
variance of the site-by-species community matrix Y and scaled to the maximum
value observed. Occurrence observations from eBird (left) and single-species SDM
predictions (right) were converted into presence-absence data per species, then
the Hellinger transformation was applied before computing the LCBD indices.

<p align="center">
    <img src="figures/relationship-raw.png" width="49%" />
    <img src="figures/relationship-bart.png" width="49%" />
</p>

Figure: Relationship between the species richness and the LCBD value of each
site based on the occurrence observations from eBird (left) and the SDM
predictions (right). LCBD values were scaled to the maximum value observed after
applying Hellinger transformation.

![NE subareas](figures/subareas-combined.png)

Figure: Comparison between a species-rich region (Northeast) and a species-poor
one (Southwest) at a given scale, based on the SDM predictions.

This figure highlights the difference between species-rich and species-poor
subareas. In a species-rich region, such as the Northeastern region of our study
extent (North America), LCBD scores display a decreasing relationship with
species richness. Hence, the sites with the highest LCBD values, the most unique
ones in terms of species composition, are the species-poor sites, while the
species-rich sites display low scores. Thus, our results show that the only way
to stand out in such a region is by having few species. Since most sites
comprise between 20 to 30 warblers species, the most species-rich ones with 40
species do not stand out and are not as exceptional as the ones with 10 species
or fewer. The Southwest subarea, on the other hand, shows a different
relationship. The sites with the highest LCBD values are once again the poorest
ones in terms of species richness. However, since most sites only comprise
around 10 species, the decreasing relationship with richness is initially much
sharper, and displays a more important increase as richness reaches 20 species.
This way, species-rich sites comprising around 40 species stand out more and are
more exceptional in species-poor regions than in species-rich ones.

This result higlights an important aspect regarding the LCBD measure: contrary
to previous findings, it does not simply decrease with species richness. In
fact, the relationship with richness is not constant -- it actually depends on
the general profile of the region on which it is applied, and whether or not
this region is species-poor or species-rich. A parabolic relationship was
actually expected when the measure was introduced, as both extremes should
normally stand out. An explanation for the previously observed results could be
that extremely rich sites are just much less ecologically possible. It is
unlikely that all species could be found in a single site given their different
niche preferences, while poor sites are much more feasible. These sites will
almost always contribute more to the variance, as measured by LCBD values.

![3 scales](figures/subareas-scaling.png)

Figure: Effect of scaling and full region extent size on the relationship
between site richness and LCBD value. LCBD values are re-calculated at each
scale based on the sites in this region only.

# References
